- Is everything you're going to need
to know about these astronauts coming home
and the challenges they're going to face.
My name's John Jake. I'm a
doctor of biomedical engineering
and I have done extensive work
in bone density treatment,
which is one of the key
challenges that those
who leave the comfort of the gravity field
that the earth provides have to deal with
when they return earth.
They're going to notice the
problems that have been added
to the general physical challenges
based on poor digestion,
like gravity is required
for proper digestion.
So they've already been suffering from
compromised digestion.
No doubt they will have had
some shrinkage of their stomach
and digestive system just
because it's so difficult
to digest food in a zero
gravity environment.
They're accustomed to eating less
and they're gonna need to eat more now
that they're back on earth
and can actually utilize that nutrition.
They'll be lucky if they can even get
to maintenance calories.
Their, their digestive system
has been so compromised
and they haven't been able to eat a lot.
Gravity is required to really pull food
through your digestive system.
If it were me, it would be
an almost all protein diet.
I would encourage nutrient dense.
It would pretty much just be butter
and steak would be the recommendation.
The highest nutrient dense foods
and as much strength exercise,
which would be relative
to their level of conditioning.
So day one, they're
probably gonna go to sleep.
Day two, they're gonna do very
simple stuff like body weight
squats, you know, sit to stands in a chair
and they're just standing up.
They haven't had to balance
themselves for a long time
and that's, that's going to show
and they're gonna feel
that just getting on
and off the toilet is gonna be hard
because it's, that's like a squat
and they're weak, so they'll
have trouble getting on
and off of it, but that's it.
Then on top of that,
because they have not had
mechanical loading going
through their musculoskeletal
system, they're going
to have a loss of bone
density that is noticed
and a loss of muscle mass that is noticed
and they're gonna have to begin training
to treat those deficiencies very quickly
because they're, they're
frail at this point.
It'll probably take them
six months to a year
to recover their strength and bone mass.
Significant losses happen in zero gravity.
Regular weightlifting just not that great.
What we need is a weight
that changes as we move so
that it accommodates our,
our strength curve delivers a
much more exhausting stimulus,
therefore guaranteeing muscular growth.
If they train correctly in
the most efficient manner
within probably the same amount
of time that they were gone,
if they dedicate that to training,
they could restore all
the damage that was done
by the zero gravity
environment they would need
to be doing four days a week.
Because you do need some time to recover
between exercise stimuli.
Activities of daily living
would probably be challenging
for most people in this situation.
However, you could put
astronauts in the same category
as Navy Seals in the amount of training
and discipline that they have.
So they're well aware of
what they signed up for.
They know exactly what they need to do
and they're probably not
even gonna complain about it.
Ultimately. I have
heard astronauts tell me
that like the weight of a a
pencil feels very strange in
their hand because everything
they've grabbed a hold
of had no weight to it
for the last few months.
So just simple activities
seem either challenging
or oddly difficult or it feels strange.
But again, these are NASA astronauts.
They're ready for this. When
astronauts are recruited,
they pick the ones who they
know have the mental fortitude
to handle being stranded
in space for a few months.
These individuals,
they're problem solvers.
They don't panic, they think
their way through everything.
Now the chances of one of
them having a, a mental
or emotional breakdown
is still significant
because it's very difficult
what they went through.
But they are so highly trained
that it's rare where any
of them have any mental breakdown or
or are just in distress.
This is something NASA has
done exceptionally well.
They really know how to pick the people
and then they train them so
that they don't ever self-sabotage
because in a situation like that,
you are your own worst enemy.
You are the one who's gonna
do something in a panic
that might be a mistake and
they're trained not to do that.
They think everything through
radiation is an issue.
Our atmosphere blocks a significant
portion of the radiation
that is apparent in just
the part of outer space
that is very close to earth.
So more exposure than
you would get in a couple
of x-rays at the dentist.
But the proximity to the sun tends to be
where the real radiation concerns are.
So they're not gonna be
like damaged for life
because of radiation exposure.
There's such high anxiety in space like,
are we gonna even make it
home once they get home?
It's just kind of a collapse.
You're fighting to stay alive one day
and then the next day you
don't even know your purpose.
It's depressing. I mean, ironically,
it's like your life has been saved.
You're back here on earth.
But they always feel that way
'cause they're fighting
for their life one day
and that hurts.